Let's add gevent <span style="float:right;">[&#x25C0;](17.md) [&#x25B2;](../README.md) [&#x25BA;](19.md)</span>
=========

Adding gevent should be as easy as this:

    # pip install gunicorn==0.14.5
    # pip install greenlet==0.4.0
    # pip install gevent==0.13.8

But I've never had it that easy.

* On Macintosh I've had to wrestle a lot to get libevent installed (setting environment variables differently depending on the version of OSX). On OSX you may also need to run with environment variable EVENT_NOKQUEUE=1. I think. Maybe.
* On windows I've relied on downloaded precompiled versions of these
* On linux it usually goes OK-ish
* On any of them don't be too picky about what version you're running. If you get something that runs you're doing good.

*Note: During presentation someone said [homebrew](http://mxcl.github.io/homebrew/) would simplify this. see [postscript](28.md#postscript)*

Also, django's ADMIN media stopped working with the gunicorn server (uggg...) so I added lines to [urls.py](https://github.com/BrentNoorda/django_unusual/blob/master/django_unusual/urls.py) for that (*look for "gunicorn" comments in [urls.py](https://github.com/BrentNoorda/django_unusual/blob/master/django_unusual/urls.py) -- in a production environment maybe you want all static files somewhere else, but not in this demo*)

What did you just install:

* __gunicorn__ - web server that understands django and can fork a number of workers. Forking a number of workers only solves our problems a little bit (forks aren't nearly as lightweight as we want to be). Most importantly, gunicorn knows how to "spawn" gevent workers to handle requests, including monkey patching)
* __greenlet__ - lightweight coroutines for python - they're a clever cooperative multitasking trick so whenver a python "task" is waiting it can switch and handle one that is not weighting within the same python space (only some parts of context are different)
* __gevent__ - handles libevent reponses - basically, it handles each request/response to happen in its own greenlet

## new way to run the server

Previously we ran the server with this command:

    # python manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000 --nothreading

(<i>OK, I cheated by forcing single threaded on the django development server, which now does support multithreading, but just a little bit, and with a slightly larger group we'd still see the problem</i>)

From now on we'll mostly use this command:

    # gunicorn django_unusual.wsgi -b 0.0.0.0:8000 -k gevent -w 1

Where "-k gevent" tells gunicorn to use gevent to handle each request. "-w 1" start a single process (you want to have at least one for each CPU core so none are idle--for this demo one will suffice).

------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [&lt;&lt; prev](17.md) -- [top](../README.md) -- [next &gt;&gt;](19.md)