gevent caveats <span style="float:right;">[&#x25C0;](21.md) [&#x25B2;](../README.md) [&#x25BA;](22.md)</span>
=========

### * may need to increase # of files to support this many connections

on most systems a socket is represented by a file handle, and systems have configuration limits. supporting many more connections allows these limits to be reached quickly. It's usually easy just to raise the system or process open file limit.

### * now database may be the limiting factor (see redis and memcached, etc...)

### * and look out if you use globals.

globals can be useful (e.g. for caching) but remember that all your greenlets see the same globals

### * beware of third-party tools that aren't greenlet-aware -- e.g. if it uses object code that does it's own blocking IO, then greenlet benefits may be lost

If a library is pure python it's probably OK. If it relies on a C library that does socket, file, or any other I/O maybe it is not greenlet aware.

One way I've experimented, to test that a library is not coroutin/greenlet aware, is to force some call on that library that I know will be very very slow (for instance having it hit an IP address that will never return, or refer to a hugely-large remote file) and see if that slows down any other connections; if other connectsion are halted then this is probably a bad greenlet player.


*Note: During presentation there were other questions about 3rd party tools, addressed in the  [postscript](28.md#postscript)*

*Note: Another post-presentation thought: How to know if you're using a library that isn't gevent aware: Try bombarding the server with requests and look at it's CPU usage. If your server is not at 100% CPU (meaning it's waiting on something) then maybe it's using something that is blocking on I/O, and so is not gevent-aware.*

__about DB modules and greenlets__: Your database library is probably not used in a greenlet-optimized way by default, but likely has the hooks for gevent or has all-python alternatives. Even then, because now the server will start to have many more requests you may overwhelm the DB sockets, so pooling and/or DB caching modules may be needed.

------

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; [&lt;&lt; prev](21.md) -- [top](../README.md) -- [next &gt;&gt;](22.md)